<h2>Herbs for Severe Asthma </h2>

<p>If you’re living with severe asthma and can’t seem to get relief from your symptoms, you may be wondering what options you have. A few small studies have shown that herbal supplements can ease asthma symptoms. These herbs range from those found in your pantry to common traditional Chinese medicine herbs.

Combining herbs with your traditional asthma medications is known as complementary therapy. Using only herbal treatments without traditional medicines is alternative therapy. You shouldn’t use complementary or alternative therapies for asthma without talking to your doctor first.

Severe asthma management requires a combination of treatments to lessen and control symptoms. You’ll likely need to use prescription medications in addition to herbal treatments. </p>

<p>Turmeric
You may already have this bright yellow spice in your pantry for cooking flavorful curries and other dishes. Turmeric gets its color from curcumin. This natural coloring agent can also reduce inflammation.

Turmeric may help with arthritis and even cancer. In relation to asthma, one studyTrusted Source followed 77 participants with mild to moderate asthma who took curcumin capsules for 30 days.

Researchers found that the supplement helped reduce airway obstruction and could be a helpful complementary treatment for asthma. Note that this is only one small study, and more research is needed to determine the benefits and risks. </p>

<p>Ginseng and garlic
Ginseng and garlic are common herbs and available in a variety of supplement forms.

Ginseng is a plant from Asia that some people claim to have many health benefitsTrusted Source, including the improvement of respiratory conditions. Garlic is also thought to have significant health benefitsTrusted Source like reducing cholesterol and blood pressure.

A small studyTrusted Source done on rats connected the use of ginseng and garlic to the reduction of asthma symptoms.

The study exposed rats to a substance that affects the lungs. The researchers gave some of the rats ginseng and garlic during the exposure. Those given the herbs had decreased symptoms and inflammation as opposed to the other group.

Still, more research on humans is needed to prove the effectiveness of these herbs. </p>

<p>Black seed
This spice is also known as Nigella sativa. Some studiesTrusted Source suggest that it has medicinal benefits, including reducing asthma symptoms.

One studyTrusted Source examined prior research on black seed and asthma to assess its effectiveness. The study concluded that prior research shows black seed may help asthma symptoms, inflammation, and airway function. It also emphasized the need for more research. </p>
